Do emergency exits 

I'm looking into a unique feature of the New York subway: exiting by holding open the .
If you've used the New York Subway, you have probably noticed a few of it's quirks.  For instance, there is the surprising number of people raising money to buy basketball jerseys.  Or the city-specific advertising which, in it's pandering, seems to suggest that New Yorkers are deeply insecure about whether or not they really are New Yorkers.  

{% include image.html url="../images/MTA/nyeats.jpg" description="&quot;It's ok, you really do belong here&quot; coos this ad. Do you feel reassured?" %}


But ads and "show time" dancers are not my subject for today.  I'm going to talk about people dodging turnstiles. I recently completed my first project at Metis, which involved analyzing the MTA's turnstile data.  After the project, there was still one issue I wanted to look into: whether or not there was a systematic difference between the number of entries and exits counted by the turnstiles.

My teammate Lauren pointed out that, in her experience, "other people" often use the emergency exit doors rather than use the turnstiles. I have seen "other people" do this too, so it made sense to me. My goal here is to see if I can see this difference in the MTA's data.

I've lived in a few cities, and New York is the only one that uses turnstiles that look like a cross between a spinning cage and the inside of a meat grinder. These things are no fun to use.
{% include image.html url="../images/MTA/turnstile.jpg" description="How the heck do I walk through that thing? - Every first-time MTA rider ever" %} {% include image.html url="../images/MTA/exit.jpg" description="I'll take my chances with the alarm. - Lots of people" %}


There is some cheating in both directions.  Sometimes people jump over the turnstiles to avoid paying the fare.  So all of my estimates are likely to be low, unless some people spin the turnstiles for fun.  Or if they were fooled by the April Fools joke that said "Did you know [that] you help power the train? MTA turnstiles generate 13.6% of the electricity used to run the subway."

... 


More to come