---
layout: post
title: Monday Morning Primary Predictions - Did demographics decide the 2016 primaries?
published: True
---

Many people made predictions about this year's primary, and many of these predictions turned out to be wrong.  I don't need to retread all of this information here, but suffice to say many people underestimated [Donald Trump](http://www.politico.com/story/2016/05/trump-pundits-wrong-predictions-222789) and [Bernie Sanders](http://www.dailykos.com/story/2016/4/6/1511308/-Why-is-538-wrong-so-often-about-the-Democratic-primary).

When it was clear that their predictions were wrong, these same experts offered simple explanations for the surprising results.  I was interested in looking into this and checking whether the primaries were really that hard to predict, and what I could see about what was driving support for the candidates.

I used demographic information that was available in 2014.  This included information about employment, ethnicity, population, and living arrangements.  Since the model did not use polls, the results can be interpreted as the degree to which demographics decided the outcome of the primaries.

The model also used information about the promaries, like the date they were held and how they were structured (open/closed/caucus).  The date was important because it tracked changes over time.  In particular, Trump's support increased over time and I thought it was important to control for this shift.


The main strength of this approach is that it beats the hell out of any professional predictions that were made during the primaries.  The biggest weakness is that it relies on the results of some primaries to make predictions for others, so I was not able to make predictions before Super Tuesday (March 1).  This is a serious drawback but, observing the results this year, one wonders whether anyone should have made predictions before Super Tuesday.


Show plot of trump's predicted number of delegates over time

Problems

Excluded states

Alaska
Show shapefile with dissolved boundaries
Mention townships in MA, etc


Future work:
Including 
This requires downloading the relevant shapefiles from each district, and combining them into a single map.  U.S. census data is not available for townships, so I will need to download data in census tracts and then combine them to form townships.

